# Problem

There is an exam with $N$ problems. For each problem, a participant can either answer the problem or skip the problem. If the participant chooses to answer the problem and gets it correct, the participant is awarded $X$ points. If the participant chooses to answer the problem but answers it incorrectly, 1 point is deducted from their score. If the participant skipped the problem, their score was not changed. For each of the following values of $N$ and $X$, compute the number of distinct scores the participant could obtain in the exam:

* (a) $N=7, X=4$
* (b) $N=15, X=18$
* (c) $N=30, X=20$

# Solution Ideas

* The first step is to write the problem mathematically. If (A, B, C) is the vector consisting of the number of (correct answers, incorrect answers, skip answers), then the equivalent problem is to find the number of elements in the set (unique because it is a set) $S =$ { $AX - B \mid A + B \leq N$ } with the condition $A+B+C = N$.
* The first step is always looking for the simplest possible case i.e. $N = 1$. Observe that for $N = 1$, there are only 3 solutions { $-1, 0, X$ }.
* Now, let's try to understand $N = 2$. Observe that in this case $A + B \leq 2$, while the expression $AX - B$ remains the same. This shows that we need to know the number of elements for $N= 1$ for $N = 2$ and the unique elements of { $AX - B \mid A + B = 2$ }.
* This can be extended to a general $N$. Let's consider the number of elements of { $AX - B \mid A + B \leq N$ } as $f(X, N)$.
* Since, { $AX - B \mid A + B \leq N$ } = { $AX - B \mid A + B \leq N-1$ } $\cup$ { $AX - B \mid A + B = N$ }, $f(X, N) = f(X, N-1)+$ the number of elements in the set { $AX - B \mid A + B = N$ }, that is not there in { $AX - B \mid A + B \leq N-1$ }.
* Therefore, the problem boils down to counting the number of elements in the set { $AX - B \mid A + B = N$ }, that are not there in { $AX - B \mid A + B \leq N-1$ }.
* This type of approach is called the recursion approach, which is the cornerstone of the Divide and Conquer algorithm to solve a problem. We reduce a problem into smaller problems to its fundamental parts.
* Let's name the two sets so that we can easily call them during the solution steps. Let's call { $AX - B \mid A + B = N$ } as $S(X,N)$ and { $AX - B \mid A + B \leq N-1$ } as $S(X,N-)$. Observe that $S(X,N)$ = { $A(X+1) - N$ } using $A+B = N$, and $S(X,N-)$ = { $A(X+1) - N + C$ } using the fact that $A+B+C = N$.
* Let's try to mathematically formulate when an element of $S(X,N)$ is same as $S(X,N-)$. Take an element  $A_1(X+1) - N$ of $S(X,N)$, and an element $A_2(X+1) - N + C_2$ of $S(X,N-)$, and equate them. We get that $A_1(X+1) - N = A_2(X+1) - N + C_2 \implies (A_1 - A_2)(X+1) = C_2$.
* This is great because this gives the information that for the equality to hold $X+1$ must divide $C_2$, and if $C_2 = (X+1)k$, then $A_1 - A_2 = k$. This implies that given the pair $(A_2, C_2$ with the condition $X+1$ divides $C_2$, there is a $A_1 = A_2 + k$ that makes the two elements of the sets $S(X,N)$ and $S(X,N-)$ same.
* Therefore, the next step is to find out for the given integers what are the possibilities of such divisibilities of $C_2$ and find the simultaneous recursion relationships.
